now the islamist militant organization
Hamas is extremely well funded with many
of its leaders working to secure cash
from abroad let's take a closer look now
at just how Hamas gets much of its
International
Aid people in the Hamas controlled Gaza
Strip lived in poverty and cramped
conditions even before the latest
conflict broke
out but while gazans struggled to make
ends meet Hamas which seized power in
Gaza in 2007 and is designated as a
terrorist organization by the US EU and
Germany managed to stockpile weapons
money and build a vast network of
tunnels that alone is believed to have
cost tens of millions of
Euros after Israel launched its war
against Hamas ordinary gazin flood their
bombed out neighborhoods but their
leaders are believed to be living abroad
in
luxury Hamas leaders are reported to
have accumulated vast personal wealth
media Reports say Hamas Chief isma hania
and two other top officials Living in
Qatar are worth
billions so where does Hamas get its
money from the US estimates Iran gives
Palestinian groups including Hamas $100
million a year Qatar also channels
funding private donors including
Palestinians living abroad give money to
organizations that funnel it to Hamas
the group also collects Millions
annually from taxes on of businesses and
kickbacks from smuggled
Goods one way to get around sanctions
and transfer outside money had been
digital
cryptocurrencies but Hamas stopped
accepting Bitcoin even before the war
due to increased
surveillance and there are accusations
that Hamas has siphoned off
International Aid money but the islamist
group denies using the funds for its
military
Wing stepen Ryman is with the UK defense
and security think Tang known as the
Royal United Service Institute Stephen
how has Hamas managed to evade
International authorities and amass so
much wealth and Military capability with
it what we need to think about in this
area is that we have a regime to prevent
the financing of terrorism called the
counterterrorism financing regime and
this is what Hamas has been able to
evade so expertly the CTF regime was set
up right after the events of 911 and
really the objective here was to prevent
terrorists from using the formal
Financial system which is the way in
which Al-Qaeda was able to finance its
attacks so Hamas has found really a
series of work arounds and just one of
those might be the use of shell
companies uh which are sometimes um
listed in the name of operatives that
could be somewhat unassociated with
Hamas they're able to move funds through
those companies seemingly anonymously
but it's also the truth that Hamas is
inconsistently sanctioned uh by
different countries around the world
it's not like Islamic State or or Al Ka
who are sanctioned at the UN level
meaning those designations have Global
applicability um so I think this
represents also the case that uh we have
a regime to counter terrorism financing
that is somewhat ineffective and lots of
terrorist groups have really built
workarounds around it over the last 20
years or so can you give us more details
where is the money coming
from so your presenter shared with you a
few different modes of Revenue
generation for Hamas I think really
three major areas to look at here um the
first is around donation campaigns uh
and really in this area we do have to
address the cryptocurrency issue there's
been a real overblowing of the degree to
which cryptocurrencies have been used by
Hamas to raise funds there's been really
inconsistent estimates in this area some
quoting 90 million us and others saying
it's as little as
$450,000 analysts that I trust
personally I would say um put the figure
close to 0.1 or 1% of hamas's total
revenue coming from crypto currencies
and really there's a worrying Trend
whereby policy makers are basing their
responses on how to design regulation of
the cryptocurrency sector based on these
widely different assumptions of how much
is actually used to finance terrorism
Hamas also of course is extorting people
in Gaza and how for many years so long
as they've controlled that territory as
which they took over in 2007 all
legitimate economic commercial activity
in the strip some proportion of that is
going directly to Hamas whether that's
cigarettes cement or everyday activity
but we also need to look at the
Investment Portfolio that Hamas has been
able to develop over the years you know
sanctions from the United States have
showed that Financial facilitators based
in countries like Syria um Algeria Sudan
turkia and others have been able to
build a portfolio worth millions of
dollars and it's that large network of
Investments and companies which is
controlled by Hass leaders uh which is
perhaps going to become more and more
important as the war drags on but also
possibly a useful place that we can
start to Target Hamas finan Stephen do
you believe that money is the top
priority for the Hamas leadership or
does it play a significant personal role
is serving garin's uh top of the
agenda I think it's safe to say that
during all of hamas's existence
certainly its control over the Gaza
Strip since 2007 military objectives
have always outweighed objectives to to
potentially um administer that territory
funds that are skimmed off of
humanitarian Aid that goes into the
strip or taxation of the normal economy
that's always going to be afforded to
hamas's military Wing the alasan
brigades first it's definitely not going
to Social Services and this is really
one of the dangers of a terrorist
organization controlling that territory
they nominally say they're looking after
the people but really we can't expect uh
we can't really take come's word at it
when they say that for example uh
humanitarian Aid 100% is going to um is
going to support Social Services that's
just unrealistic now in recent days
Israeli police said they' Frozen account
at barkless Bank said to be linked to
Hamas fundraising is this an important
moment or is it just a drop in the
ocean I think the freezing of the
Barkley's bank account was a great
development it shows that there's
coordination uh between law enforcement
and the private sector on trying to shut
down the bank accounts and other
architecture that Hamas needs in order
to maintain its Global Financial system
including that Investment Portfolio but
really this is likely just one of
several such accounts that exist around
the world whether they be bank accounts
cryptocurrency wallets Etc this
financial facilitation network is really
vast and I think we should also be
careful when the default decision is to
close bank
accounts it could be potentially useful
to watch the transaction action going in
and out of an account instead in order
to gain useful Financial intelligence
about the operations of those financial
facilitator networks that intelligence
could possibly lead to a more impactful
disruption later later down the line
Stephen Rhyman there in London with the
Royal United Service Institute thank you
very much for sharing your expertise
with
us thank
you